Good Afternoon All,
Android :
Android is an operating system,And it is an open source
and it based on the linux kernel used for mobile device.
Such as smart phones, tablets,computers etc.
Android was developed by Google and later by Open Handset Alliances.

Java and kotlin languages are mainly used to write the android code
even throught other languages are also used.

History of Android:
Android development was started in the year 2005 .
Stared by Android Inc,later bought by Google in the year 2005.
First beta version of the android software development kit was realesad
by google in2007.
First commerical was released Android 1.0 in september 2008.

Features of Android:
1.Android supports multiple languages.
2.Android supports a multi tasking means we can switch between the applications.
3.supports audio/video
4.os basic screen provide beatiful and intutive userinterface.
5.supports multitouch
6.sqlite a light weight relational database is used for storage purpose.
7.contains multiple api s to support a location tracking service such as GPS.

1.Android studio Installation Process
2.Registration Process
3.How to enable usb debugging  Moblie_name.

Layouts in Android?
layout defines a structure for userinterface in an activity or a component of uI.
View :View is a basic building block of the userinterface.
View is a small rectangular box which responds to user inputs.
eg:Edit Text,Button,checkboxes.
ViewsGroups:
Collections of views and other child views.it is an invisible part
and the base class for layouts and view containers.

declare alayout in 2 ways 
declare UI elements in xml:
instatiate layout elements at runtime.

Andorid Layout types :
1.Linear layout
2.Relative layout
3.constraint Layout 
4.Frame Layout
5.Table Layout
6.Coordination Layout

Layout Attributes:
android:id 
specify the id of the view and viewgroup
android:layout_width
specify the width of the view and viewgroup
android:layout_height
specify the height of the view and viewgroup
android:layout_margin
creates space outside the view border.
android:padding
create space inside the viewborder.
android:layout_gravity
based on the position.
android:layout_weight
specifies how much of the extra space in the layout shoul;d be allocated.

Android UI Widgets:
Textview
EditText
Button
Image Button
Radio Button
RadioGroup
Toggle Button
Switch
Checkbox
ImageView
ProgressBar
Seekbar
Rating Bar
Toast is a notification message that pop up for a specific duration.
Timepicker
Datepicker
spinner
Autocomplete TextView

Android Architecture:
1)Applications:Top layer of the android architeture.you write your 
application to be installed on this layer.Eg:Contactbook,Games
2.Application Framework:classes which are used to create a android application
ActivityManager,Contentprovidr,NotifcationsManager
3.libraries:freetype,SQLITE ,Media,c runtime library.
4Android Runtime:DVM responsibel to run the android application.
5.Linux kernel:power management,memory management,device managementresource management.
Android was created on the open source kernal of the Linux.


Thank you All .